NARRATOR: A ball rolling down a
long incline will be used
to show how position, velocity,
and acceleration of the ball
change as it moves down the
incline.
Five lights arranged along the
length of the track
flash simultaneously once per
second.
As the ball rolls down,
it is directly above each of the
lights just as they flash.
This gives us a record of the
positions of the ball
at one-second intervals.
This is how far the ball
traveled in the first second.
traveled
in the first two seconds.
Three seconds.
Four seconds.
We will move this distance up to
a graph
to keep track of position versus
time.
Does position change linearly
over time?
Next, we will graph the average
velocity of the ball
during five different intervals
to see how velocity varies as
the ball rolls down the incline.
The ball moved this far during
the first second.
It moved this far during the
next second.
This far during the third
second.
The fourth second.
This gives us a graph of the
velocity of the ball over time.
Does velocity increase linearly?
Now we will graph the changes in
velocity versus time
by graphing the differences in
successive velocities.
What does this tell us about the
acceleration of the ball?